.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2013-04-21               \" DATE 
.Dt piano 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os UNIX/Linux/Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm piano
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Command interface to
.Xr pianod 1 .
.Sh SYNOPSIS			\" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.\" Fl = flags, Ar = argument
.Op Fl cdvm
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl U Ar username
.Op Fl P Ar password
.Op Ar command Ar [Arguments ...]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
issues commands to and retreives data from
.Xr pianod 1 ,
allowing shell scripts or interactive access without having to go through
.Xr telnet 1
or
.Xr nc 1 .  Options allow formatting data in various ways, either
convenient for reading (interactive use) or in more raw forms
(for further processing).
.Pp
If no command is given, retrieves the playback status (playing, paused,
stopped, etc.) instead of issuing a command; status is indicated only
by exit status unless -v is given.
.\" Use the .Nm macro to refer to your program throughout the man page like such:
.\" .Nm
.\" Underlining is accomplished with the .Ar macro like this:
.\" .Ar underlined text .
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" A list of items with descriptions:
.\" .Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.\" .It item a               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
.\" Description of item a
.\" .It item b
.\" Description of item b
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Pp
.Sh OPTIONS			\" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl c
In output, include numeric status codes.
.It Fl d
Data only; in output, strip the field names.
.It Fl v
Verbose. Output status text instead of just returning
a status code.  Applies to checking status or station.
.It Fl m
Multiple record format.  Includes
.Xr pianod's
end-of-data message at the end of the output, which is extraneous
for single records but useful when processing multiple records.
.It Fl r
Report remaining time in current track.  Returned as a number of
seconds, suitable for passing to
.Xr sleep 1 .
.It Fl s
Check if a station is selected.  Result is indicated only by
exit status; use with -v to get station type and name.
.It Fl h Ar host
The host on which
.Xr pianod
is running.  Defaults to localhost, or $PIANOD_HOST if set.
.It Fl p Ar port
The port at which to connect to
.Xr pianod .
By default, connections are attempted at 4445.
.Nm
can connect to either the line or HTTP port.
.It Fl U Ar user
The user to authenticate on the server.  Not all commands require
authentication; if neither this option or the corresponding environment
variable are indicated, then authentication is not performed.
.It Fl P Ar password
The password to authenticate with.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.It Ev PIANOD_HOST
The
.Xr pianod
host to connect to.
.It Ev PIANOD_PORT
The port at which to connect to
.Xr pianod .
.It Ev PIANOD_USER
The username to authenticate with.
.It Ev PIANOD_PASSWORD
The password with which to authenticate.
.El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
None.
.\" .Bl -tag -width "~/.config/pianod/startscript" -compact "~/.config/pianod/config" -compact
.\" .It Pa ~/.config/pianod/startscript
.\" A series of commands run with administrator privileges on startup.
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Fl -Z value
.\" .El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -tag -width "255"
.It 0
if the command succeeds, or the server is playing (including being between
tracks or stalled), or there is a selected station
.It 1
in the event of a server error response, or the server is not playing,
or there is no selected station
.It 255
if the server cannot be reached, does not respond, or otherwise
does something unexpected
.El
.Sh AUTHOR
.nm
Perette Barella <perette@deviousfish.com>.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright Perette Barella.
.Nm
is available under the MIT license.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr pianod 1 , 
.Xr runmix 1 ,
.Xr football 3
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
