.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2013-04-21               \" DATE 
.Dt pianod 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os UNIX/Linux/Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm pianod
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Pandora client daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.\" .Op Fl abcd          \" [-abcd]
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl p Ar port         \" [-p port] 
.Op Fl P Ar httpport     \" [-P httpport] 
.Op Fl s Ar httpsport    \" [-P httpport] 
.Op Fl c Ar clientdir    \" [-c clientdir]
.Op Fl i Ar startscript  \" [-i startscript]
.Op Fl n Ar nobodyuser   \" [-n nobody]
.Op Fl g Ar groups
.Op Fl u Ar userdata     \" [-u userdata ]
.\" .Op Ar                   \" [file ...]
.\" .Ar arg0                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.\" arg2 ...                 \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a daemon for Pandora, the online music service. 
.Nm
provides a TCP/IP line-oriented socket interface and a Websockets
interface, each allowing multiple clients to connect for status and
control.  The application protocol (command/response set) is identical
between line-oriented and Websocket connections.
.Pp
The line-oriented protocol is accessible with
.Xr nc 1
or 
.Xr telnet 1 ;
a line session may be initiated on the HTTP port via the greeting "HELO pianod".
.\" Use the .Nm macro to refer to your program throughout the man page like such:
.\" .Nm
.\" Underlining is accomplished with the .Ar macro like this:
.\" .Ar underlined text .
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" A list of items with descriptions:
.\" .Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.\" .It item a               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
.\" Description of item a
.\" .It item b
.\" Description of item b
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl v
Report version and exit.
.It Fl p Ar port                 \"-a flag as a list item
The line port, default 4445.
When set to 0, the line-oriented port is disabled.
.It Fl P Ar port                 \"-a flag as a list item
The HTTP port, default 4446 or
.Fl Ar p port
+ 1.  When set to 0, the
HTTP server and Websockets are disabled.
.It Fl s Ar port
The HTTPS port, default 4447,
.Fl Ar p port
+ 2, or
.Fl Ar P port
+ 1.  When set to 0, or when the required X509 certificate and keys are not
present, the HTTPS server and secure websockets are disabled.
.It Fl c Ar clientdir
Location of files to be served via HTTP(S).  The server only serves files (no
server-side processing); this is intended to serve a web applet that will then
communicate using Websockets.  If this option is not set,
HTTP GET and HEAD requests return errors.  
.It Fl i Ar startscript
The script pianod executes on startup.
The script is run with pianod administrator privileges, typically
setting the Pandora user, audio preferences, and choosing a default station.
.It Fl n Ar nobodyuser
When invoked as root, the user to change to after startup.
.Nm
assumes both the user and group id of the specified user.
Defaults to nobody.
.It Fl g Ar groups
When invoked as root, a comma-separated list of 
supplementary groups to assume after startup.
Defaults to the supplementary groups of the nobodyuser (see -n).
.It Fl u Ar userdata
The userdata/password file.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width "XDG_CONFIG_HOME" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.It Ev XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Sets the location of configuration files.  Files are stored in a
.Nm
directory within this.
.It HOME
If XDG_CONFIG_HOME is not set, and
.Nm
is not running as root, then files are stored in
$HOME/.config/pianod.
.El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
Configuration file location is set by
XDG_CONFIG_HOME.  If not set and
.Nm
is running as root, filenames are prefixed with
.Nm
and are stored in
SYSCONFDIR
which is usually
/etc
but may be pointed elsewhere when the package is configured.
If not running as root,
.Nm
uses
$HOME/.config/pianod
or failing that in a 
.Nm
subdirectory of the current directory.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "x509-server-key.pem" -compact
.It Pa startscript
Commands executed with administrator privilege when
.Nm
is launched.
.It Pa passwd
This XML file contains a list of
pianod users, their passwords (encrypted), privileges and preferences.
.It x509-server.pem
The X509 certificate used for HTTPS encryption.
.It x509-server-key.pem
The X509 key used for HTTPS encryption
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag -tag
.\" .El
To enable logging, use the
.Fl Z
and
.Fl z
flags:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl Z Ar value
Enables pianod logging for events indicated by
.Ar value .
Logs are sent to standard
error, which may be redirected in usual manners. 0xfefd is a good value; see
the code for specific flags.
.It Fl z Ar value
Like
.Fl Z
but for Football events such as connects, disconnects, socket states
and HTTP requests.
.El
.Pp
Logging preferences may also be changed at run-time via the SET [FOOTBALL]
LOGGING FLAGS command.
.Sh AUTHOR
.Nm
was developed by Perette Barella <perette@deviousfish.com> and incorporates
components from Lars-Dominik Braun and others.  See the COPYING file for
full information.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
.Nm
is Copyright the various authors and
is available under the MIT license; see the COPYING file for full text.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr piano 1 , 
.Xr runmix 1 ,
.Xr wsgw 1 ,
.Xr football 3
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
