.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2012-04-15               \" DATE 
.Dt runmix 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os UNIX/Linux/Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm runmix
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Automate music mixing with
.Xr pianod 1 .
.Sh SYNOPSIS			\" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.\" Fl = flags, Ar = argument
.Op Fl cn
.\" .Op Fl P Ar password
.Op Ar mixplan
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
evaluates and runs a mixplan.
A mixplan is a simple declarative program that describes what Pandora
stations to mix at particular times.  Each line features a time in 24-hour
format followed by a list of stations, separated by plus (+) signs.
Times must be in chronological order
or
.Nm
considers it an error.
.Pp
.Nm
allows 2 pseudo genres:
.Xr start
requests the player start playback at the specified time, and
.Xr stop
requests stopping at the specified time.
.Pp
.Nm
also allows the Pandora account to be selected.  This must occur
as the first directive of the file with the keyword
.Xr user
instead of a time, followed by the pianod username.  The requested user
must have their Pandora credentials registered in pianod.
.Pp
Comments are formed by hash/pound sign (#this is a comment) or using
double-slash, //as in this form.
.Pp
.Nm
assumes the plan starts today.  If the first time is later in the day,
it schedules playback to start then.  If, however, there are mix definitions
prior to the present time of day, they are ignored except for the single
station set prior to the present time, which is selected immediately.
Times may wrap past midnight once.
.Pp
.Nm
uses
.Xr at 1
to schedule station changes according to the mixplan.
.\" Use the .Nm macro to refer to your program throughout the man page like such:
.\" .Nm
.\" Underlining is accomplished with the .Ar macro like this:
.\" .Ar underlined text .
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" A list of items with descriptions:
.\" .Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.\" .It item a               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
.\" Description of item a
.\" .It item b
.\" Description of item b
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl n
Evaluate the mixplan without running it.
.It Fl c
Cancel mixing.  This clears all future
.Xr at 1
jobs, which may potentially affect other processes if they are using
.Xr at 1
for scheduling.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh PLATFORM SPECIFIC SUPPORT      \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width "MAC OS X" -compact "OS X" -compact
.It MAC OS X
.Xr Finder
will launch shell scripts in a
.Xr Terminal
window if they have the extension
.Xr command .
.Nm
recognizes being invoked as
.Xr runmix.command
and presents a file dialog if invoked without parameters.  Note
.Nm
must be natively named runmix.command; a symbolic link will not work.
.Pp
If an mix is already scheduled (there are things in the
.Xr at 1
queue),
.Nm
lets the user choose between cancelling the existing mix, choosing a
new one, or no action.
.Pp
When using
.Nm
on OS X in any form,
.Xr at 1
job processing must be enabled:
.Pp
.Xr "sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.atrun.plist"
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.It Ev PIANOD_HOST
The
.Xr pianod
host to connect to.
.It Ev PIANOD_PORT
The port at which to connect to
.Xr pianod .
.It Ev PIANOD_USER
The username to authenticate with.
.It Ev PIANOD_PASSWORD
The password with which to authenticate.
.El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "~/Music/Mixes" -compact "~/Music/Mixes" -compact
.It Pa ~/Music/Mixes
Directory in which mixes are expected to be found on OS X.  If the directory
is not found, tries ~/Music, ~, and so forth back to /.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Fl -Z value
.\" .El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -tag -width "255"
.It 0
if the mixplan is valid
.It 1
if the mixplan is not valid
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr at 1 , 
.Xr piano 1 , 
.Xr pianod 1 ,
.Xr football 3
.Pp
Example mixplans at deviousfish.com/pianod.
.Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
The -c option will delete unrelated jobs from the
.Xr at 1
queue.
.Pp
Mixplans crossing two midnights won't work as expected.
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
.Sh AUTHOR
.nm
Perette Barella <perette@deviousfish.com>.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright Perette Barella.
.Nm
is available under the MIT license.
